[music]
This is the interview. I'm Lulu Garcia
Navaro and this week I'm in England to
talk [music] to Simon Cowell.
>> Is that allowed on camera or not?
>> Oh, you to [music] vape. Yeah.
>> Between American Idol, X Factor,
America's Got [music] Talent. He's
probably best known as a TV competition
judge who, let's [music] face it, could
often be pretty harsh.
>> Girls, you sounded like three cats being
dragged up the motorway. You didn't sing
a single note in tune. I think you're
possibly the worst singer in the world.
>> But the shows also cemented Cow's
reputation as a star maker. [music] Cal
formed One Direction, the band that
included Liam Payne and Harry Styles on
XFactor. Now K's got a new documentary
show on Netflix [music] where he's
trying to make another hit boy band.
[music and singing]
>> In a way, it's Cowell going [music] back
to his roots as a record company talent
scout. And as he told me, he [music]
still feels he has something left to
prove. So here's my conversation with
Simon Cal.
>> [music]
>> All right. Are we Are we ready to go?
Sure.
>> We're good. All right. Um, I want to
start um by telling you that I was in LA
this past spring uh for a family
vacation and we went to an America's Got
Talent taping. And um I have two things
to note about that experience. Uh first
the thing that occurred to me is the
power of booing, the power of the boo.
You know applauding and cheering are
really really fun. But um what was also
really great is to boo a judge and
[laughter] we booed you very very
energetically.
>> You included.
>> Yeah, me included. My daughter, we were
[laughter] very invested in booing you.
>> And I just wonder what it's like being
on the other side of that.
>> It makes me laugh to be honest with you.
I mean, it genuinely makes me laugh
because it's like they can boo, you
know, you like crazy and then in the
break you just turn around and go, "How
you doing?" And everyone's like friendly
again. But in that moment, they're like
really, like you said, invested. And I
think that's that's the cool thing about
having an audience behind you because I
always say to the producer, I can feel
when something's going good or bad by
the energy behind me. But to your point,
I think it's good. We actually try and
encourage it, which is look, if you if
you're really unhappy with this, then
tell us. I mean, seriously, tell us. I
you know, I don't care.
>> Yeah. Um I mean, and the second thing
you just touched on that occurred to me
while I was watching you, you were the
only judge uh turning around and
actually engaging with the audience in
between takes. And you know, in reading
about you, I read that your dad always
told you when you were really young how
important it is to make people feel
important.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and I was wondering if you're still
taking that advice to heart.
>> Yeah, very much so. Yeah. I mean, you
know, from the minute you walk I walk
into like the set, I have, you know, I
I'm I think because of what my dad said
years ago, it really stuck in my mind
that you have to be aware of genuine
literally every single person who's
around you, you know, whether they're
security, whether whoever they are and
obviously the without the audience there
or watching, then you don't get paid.
So, you got to be nice to them. And I
say this to all my artists, you know, I
work with, you know, which is if you
ever lose sight of that, if you start
complaining about priv, you know,
privacy, photographs, autographs, then
honestly, you're in the wrong job
because the minute you put a song out or
you go on TV or you or you make a movie,
whatever, then of course your life is
going to change. But ironically, the
audience are paying for your salary. So
you you can't not talk to them or be
nice to them.
>> You know, speaking of your dad, he was
uh an executive at EMI, the big record
label and music publishing company. Um
and his job though was to manage real
estate. He wasn't actually um a
creative, so to speak. What did he think
you'd become when when when uh you were
young? What did he hope for you?
It was so random what they thought I
could do because I was so terrible at
school. I just didn't like it. I found
it boring. I did everything I could to
get out of it. I wanted to leave at 16
and I did. I think I left on my 16th
birthday cuz I just I thought I'm I'm
just not nothing's going nothing's
digesting here. And and they were
concerned because I I didn't I I didn't
pass any of my exams. So they
[laughter] we they just tried to get me
a job. Um so my dad because like you
said he was in property, he took me up
to one of these places up in the north
of England where they teach you to
become a builder.
>> And so we went on this kind of huge
building site, you know, with diggers
and everything. And I thought, well,
this looks fun. And then I had the
second part of the interview where they
told told me what I had to learn about
maths and this and that and I thought,
okay, well, forget that. And then my mom
thought I should work for the civil
service for some reason. And I had this
really terrible, terrible job interview,
which was worse than being at school.
And then eventually um a job came up as
a runner uh at L Street Studios which
was also a film you know it was a film
studio TV studios and this was actually
a TV show.
>> So I I managed to get a job for 3 months
as a runner and I actually just loved it
from the minute I started. I mean you
literally do run basically for everyone
uh whatever they ask you to do you run
>> and I loved it. I absolutely loved it.
You eventually end up going into the
music industry.
>> Yeah.
>> Um doing ANR, which is basically being a
talent scout. What was it about the
music industry that you found compelling
at that point? What what why did you
think that this was a place that you
could actually kind of make your way?
>> Well, uh I made a decision eventually
just to get into TV musical film. So, I
had
>> the runner job. I did actually try and
get a job as a runner on The Shining,
which they were making. And for some
reason, Stanley Kubby, don't ask me why,
would never hire runners. So, it must
been some weird superstition or
something. So, I thought, okay. And then
I applied to to to be in the post room
at a TV company and got turned down. And
I'm like, how can you turn someone down
to be in the mail room? I mean, at 17 or
something, but they did. And then
fortunately my mom I think she just
wrote to EMI and said uh my son wants to
be in the music business. And I again
you had to go for a proper job
interview. You know the guy it was
called personnel in those days. The guy
had a star on his door. I remember that
that and and it was really cool because
it wasn't just you know uh you got to
deliver mail. It was like you know what
are your ambitions? Why do you want to
be here? Blah blah blah. And I said, I
really actually want to be in the music
business. I don't know what yet, but I
just love music. So, this is just a, you
know, I hope I get that opportunity and
I really will work hard. And when I got
the news I got the job, it was like,
yeah, brilliant.
>> And you were how old?
>> I must have been then about 18, 19, I
guess.
>> You eventually work your way up. And um
one of the things
that you become pretty astute at is
developing what is a broad view of what
is culturally relevant back then. I mean
I read a quote that you boasted that
you'd figure out what was going on not
by going to dingy shows and basements
but by reading the sun which is of
course the storyried British tabloid.
>> Yeah. And your first success came with
the singer Senita. Yeah.
>> In the mid1 1980s.
>> And I want to ask you about something in
particular because you were promoting
her music initially
>> um by going to gay clubs and trying to
get it played there.
>> I mean what did you understand about who
were the real cultural taste makers that
perhaps other people weren't
understanding?
>> That's a good question. So when I
uh worked with Senita, I thought she's
going to become a gay icon. I could I
could see that. So we've got to find her
a record that is a crossover record that
we can break from the gay clubs
>> because you know a lot of clubs we would
go to that you know some would they just
didn't get it right. So I kind of
thought this is fun you know. So I used
to take white labels acetates, you know,
which you know, basically a vinyl
record, but um and go into the DJ booth
and just watch the reaction as the
record was played. And it was really
interesting cuz that gave me more
feedback than anything else uh as to
whether this record, you know, we were
on the right track or not. And they
loved this first record, although I just
couldn't get it on radio. And there was
a record I heard actually it was
Senita's mom actually uh uh who recorded
a song called So many men.
>> So many [singing]
little time.
>> Yeah. So Little Time. It's a brilliant
song. All these songs were coming around
at the same time. And I remember
thinking
>> this is this is going to be big
>> and we've just got to just jump on this
wave somehow and use the clubs to to get
this record into the top 40. because if
I could get the record in the top 40,
then radio were forced to play it,
>> you know, on the on the national
countdown. So, it eventually gone in the
top 40 and then it got played
and then more radio stations played and
then eventually it went, I don't know,
number two or something.
>> So, there's two things about this story
um that are interesting. The first is
you like to do an end run around
gatekeepers clearly.
And the second thing I think about the
story is that you know you ended up
becoming
well known for then sign signing acts
that you know a lot of people saw as
gimmicky. you know, you signed the Power
Rangers, Wrestlemania, you made music,
you know, um, from that and you have
what I think is this sort of bottom up
approach to the business, um, which is
let's see what's popular and then
elevate it. Where do you think that that
came from, that understanding of, you
know, let's take what's popular, not be
precious about it, and and try and put
it out into the world? Well, um, all I
was thinking was, I've just got to keep
I've got to keep a job.
>> Got to keep the lights on.
>> I've got to keep the lights on. Exactly.
Yeah. Uh, I've got to get paid
>> and I know what it feels like to be
broke cuz I was broke and I don't I
didn't want to go back there again. So,
I
>> mean, you lost your apartment at a
certain point. You lost I mean
everything. Your car you had to move in
with your parents again.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Thank god my parents were
very understanding and they were like
well just use this is a lesson Simon you
know credit cards you got to pay back
mortgages you got to pay back so you
know everything was kind of borrowed so
um I I did you know I lost everything
went back did a deal with a bank uh got
a loan got a label deal and at that
point I just thought right I don't want
to go back to there again so I'm going
to do whatever ever I can to sell
records knowing it's the music business
because we did used to go to these ANR
meetings and a lot of the guys the ANR
people would have a job cuz they thought
they were cooler than everybody else.
Actually, a lot of them were just
idiots. Uh they were they they thought
they were cool. They were just guessing.
And if you dare to play something you
they didn't like you were like the you
know they they used to like sneer at me
laugh at me. I mean I remember once you
know playing as you said that Power
Rangers record because my boss at the
time said look what's we need to look at
our last quarter. Who's got any hits? So
I held my hand up and I said well just s
the Power Rangers. Snigger, snigger,
snigger. And I've signed these two
puppets
and and so she actually went to this
PowerPoint presentation, you know, this
whiteboard and wrote zero,
>> i.e. zero revenue without hearing them.
So I thought, well, I'll just get on
with it myself.
>> But you understood something about the
business, which is IP from things that
aren't necessarily in music. Um, it
could translate, it could be valuable,
it could be sellable. people would like
it.
>> Yeah. With these IPs, when I knew that
um they'd sold out Wembley Stadium, the
wrestlers in 30 seconds, that's 80,000
seats, you know, I I just went, "Well,
whoever loves wrestling, there's a lot
of music, you know, on these shows. I
think they're going to buy the record."
>> But I actually like those records
myself. So, I just thought they're
catchy, they're fun, you don't take it
too seriously, but more importantly that
we were selling millions and millions of
records. your first sort of huge hit
happens with the Irish boy band Westife
and um you see them for the first time,
you turn them down um and you tell their
sort of manager or the the person who
was heading the band that you didn't
like them because some of the boys
weren't very good-looking and they told
they took the they took the note, they
get rid of some of the boys. Um and then
when you saw them again, you signed
them. And I'm just wondering
when you're when you're looking at a
band like that back then. Um, and just
in general, are looks more important
than talent?
>> Well, the first time I saw the boys, it
was a mess. They there was no chemistry.
They didn't look right together. I could
just it it didn't excite me. It was just
that. And then the second time I saw
them, the manager had styled them
better,
>> had replaced them. within 30 seconds,
truthfully, I just turned around to him
and I said, "I don't need to hear
anymore. We'll just do the deal
tomorrow." And we did.
>> And they can really sing, a couple of
them in particular.
>> So my job now is to find them hits. It
was simple as that.
>> Um, and that's when the relationship,
you know, I was developing with
songwriters and producers actually was
probably more important than anything
else. no matter how good the idea is,
the song is probably the most important
factor in all of this.
>> So, when I heard when we got West Life
together, I heard a rumor that there was
a song
uh that somebody else was going to
record and someone told me this song is
a killer song. And so, I called up the
two writers and I said, "Um, hey, you've
written this song. Will you come over?"
It play me the demo and it's it's a
no-brainer.
[music]
>> And I said, "I want the song. We we
promised it to someone else." And I
actually locked the door.
>> You what?
>> I locked them in my office. And I said,
"You're not leaving until [laughter]
we do a deal."
>> That's a tactic.
>> Yeah. Uh I just And they looked at me
like, "You're mad?" And I'm not mad.
you'll have a bigger hit with these boys
than the other artist
>> because these are better singers.
>> All right. Um, we've been talking about
all your successes. Um,
but you've also had plenty of flops and
a few missed opportunities during this
particular period.
>> The band Take That um obviously was a
big one. And then Kylie Mano also was
one that sort of got away. Was that your
biggest regret, do you think?
>> Uh,
well, I mean, my biggest regret in terms
of missing out was probably the Spice
Girls. Um, they they were mentioned in
an ANR meeting. They were called Spice
then.
>> Uh, and, uh, somebody said, um, we're
hearing about this band called Spice.
Because they were they were literally
turning up at all the labels and there
was a buzz about them. Two of the ANR
guys held their hands up and said,
"We're on it. I'm on it. So, I'm
thinking, okay, I'm too late. Um, and
then by chance, a few weeks later, I
went to a meeting at the people who used
to promote our records, and the girls
happened to be in a van, and they knew
who I was. I don't know why or how, but
they just did. And they grab dragged me
into the van and played me the demo of
Wannabe. [music]
And I'm like, "Oh my god, they're going
to be huge." And got in my car, got back
to the office, called the manager, and I
said, "If they haven't signed a deal,
I'll double whatever you've been
offered." He said, "We signed
yesterday." Now, I don't know whether
that was true or not, but that was
really, really hard.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. When I saw that blow up, I'm like,
"God."
So, um, but every time that, you know,
something like that happens, weirdly, it
just makes you more determined, I think.
>> So,
let's fast forward a little bit to
American Idol. reading your
autobiography, one of the things that
sort of jumped out at me is that you
really struggled with how the public was
initially perceiving you, you know, that
bluntness that you brought to the show
that you really pushed to sort of
incorporate. Um, once it became the mega
hit that it became, you started reading
the feedback and it caused you to kind
of doubt yourself and later be nicer on
the show for a little bit, which I don't
remember this period, by the way. I
don't think um you were ever
particularly nice on the show,
[laughter] but but um but you sort of
clocked that it made the show seem
inauthentic.
>> I wasn't trying to be a dick on purpose.
All I wanted with these shows was to
find successful artists to sign to the
label. So when all these people were
coming in and they couldn't sing, you
know, like we used to do off camera, I
would be like when I used to do
auditions and someone would come in and
they can't sing. We would say after 10
seconds you can't sing. Not you're going
to be brilliant and everything else. So,
I was frustrated at the beginning cuz I
thought if we don't find someone good at
the end of these shows, they're not
going to get recommissioned.
>> Well, there are a lot of Simon Cal
insult compilations um from American
Idol online. Um you'll be happy to know.
Um you told singers they'd invented a
new form of torture. You made some fat
jokes. You had a common one that they
[laughter] were the worst singer in
America.
>> Lulu, do we have to go through this?
>> Yes, we have to go through it. Um, and
then the camera would sort of cut to
people looking absolutely crushed. I
mean, what is the line, do you think,
between bluntness and humiliation?
[sighs and gasps]
>> I've got to be honest with you, that's
why I did change over time. I mean, I
did realize I've probably gone too far
and I don't need to be Look, I was
honestly I was just I was frustrated. I
didn't particularly like I still don't
like audition days cuz they're long and
boring. I would get fed up. And of
course, you know, out of a hundred nice
comments, what are they going to use?
They're always gonna use, you know, me
being in a bad mood. I got that.
>> What can I say? I'm sorry.
>> What are you apologizing for exactly?
>> Well, just being a dick, [clears throat]
you know. Um,
>> but it also made good TV and it made you
into a integral part of
what made that show work.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That was then. Um,
I'm not proud of it. Let's put it that
way. I don't look at this. I look, I
never look at this stuff on online or
anything, you know. I'm not someone who
particularly wants to see myself on
camera. So, when I hear about these
clips, I'm like, "Oh, god."
But then again, the upside is, I
suppose, with these clips is that uh it
made the shows really popular worldwide.
>> It also launched uh the career of Ryan
Serest. And I'll be honest, I am
mystified by how he is so ubiquitous and
so popular and I wanted you to be able
to explain it.
>> I can't really answer that one if I'm
being honest with you. He does work
hard.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. He
>> a lot of people work hard.
>> Yeah. Um I don't know actually. Um
I he was very very ambitious. Um
and um
look, I don't follow his career if I'm
being honest with you. So I don't know
what he's done or doing. You know, we
rarely talk now if I'm being honest with
you. Um I always knew with Ryan it was
he was like very steely about, you know,
his career
wanting to be famous. I mean this
massive massive desire about being
you know very famous. Um so
>> so yeah
>> eventually of course you leave Idol to
launch XFactor in the US um which was
your own project. Uh and you recruited
Britney Spears to be a judge on the
show.
>> Yeah. [snorts] and you spoke multiple
times with her to get her to agree to
that. You know, at the time, you know,
she was under a conservatorship.
I was wondering what you understood
about her mental state, about what was
going on around her.
>> This is a fascinating story about her
and me and the show because somebody
said Britney would be interested in
working with you. And I'm like, really?
And I said, "Well, would she talk to me
on a call?" Because I thought it's never
going to happen. Yes. Friday night 8:00.
Fine. She's going to call you. So, I'm
waiting on the dot. She calls and we
spoke for 2 hours. And she was like so
fun, engaged, passionate, interesting,
you know, just really, really wanted to
do it. I think for the right reasons,
which was I want to be a kind of a
mentor. I'm like, brilliant. So then I
went, I want a second call cuz maybe
this was a fluke. So we have a second
call, I think two weeks later. It's even
better.
I went, wow, whatever I've heard about
her, she is so smart, so nice, so
friendly. I think we're going to get on
really, really well. Cut to we do a
press launch and Britney's there and she
doesn't look that happy. And I said,
"What's the matter?" She said, "I didn't
realize there was going to be so much
press around." And I went, "Well, it is
a press launch." So, I said, "Well,
it's kind of a bit too late to say you
don't really want to do the press now."
So, all I remember was there was a big
tent and we were in two golf buggies and
I had to go right. She was ahead of me.
So, as I went right, she just went
straight on and and because she didn't
want to do the press.
>> And then on the show, she really
struggled with saying no to people.
>> Did just didn't like it.
>> So, the first day I sat with her and I
said, "Look, there's two choices. If you
really don't want to do this, I'll get
you out. I'll get you out of it. I
really will. Uh or you've got to
understand I can't put 200 people in the
final. It's just not going to happen. It
comes down to two which means obviously
we are going to say no to people. Now
I'll say no more than you. Um but that's
what we signed up for. And I got to know
her
when she come over to my house one time
and we just talked and talked and talked
and talked because I really wanted to
get inside her head. Was she happy? Was
she unhappy? She wasn't happy. That's
what I took away. It was like two
different people. Lulu
>> and it was a shame.
>> I mean, she wrote in her memoir that she
absolutely hated doing the show.
>> Did she?
>> Yeah.
>> That's a shame. I did say to the
network, I don't know if she wants to do
it, and if she doesn't, we've got to
give her the option of being able to
leave. No one was forcing her or
pressurizing her.
>> And and actually what I she also
mentioned to me how much she didn't like
pop music. she was much more into I
don't know a different kind of music I
think I don't think she really loved pop
music so I think she probably struggled
a bit with the whole mentoring the
artists um
I mean if I saw her I mean I would I
yeah I would talk to her about that
whole time
>> because it was her choice genuinely
>> your other huge success happens um
around this period said, "Uh, let's talk
about One Direction because you put the
band together from a group of kids who
auditioned for the X Factor
and I just watched Liam Payne's audition
on X Factor uh when he was 16."
And now [screaming]
you say you're lonely.
>> And you give him the standing ovation
and he's got this beautiful smile and
he's so excited about everything.
What do you remember about about you
know them at at the very beginning?
>> Well, Liam had auditioned for me when he
was about 14 15. He was very young the
first time. And he got quite, you know,
close to making the finals.
>> And I remember having to say to him, uh,
it's just not your time. However,
there's something about you I really
like. Will you come back again?
And he came back two years later. So
that second time he came back uh, and he
nailed it on his audition
>> saying Crimea River. Yeah. Yeah. It was
just that feeling of, you know, we were
talking about the audience. You could
feel it everywhere. and this look on his
face, he was like, "This is brilliant."
Um, and then with the show, because
there's so many people you take through
to the next round and um, for whatever
reason, he and a bunch of others just
didn't do so well in the second part of
the competition.
>> And I remember having to say no to a
bunch of them, including Liam. And I
thought, Christ, having to say no to him
for the second time. Um, and then we
went actually
what if we put him with him with him
with him with him. It took about 20
minutes honestly to make the decision. I
actually remember seeing them walk
towards me and I thought, "God, they
look really good together. They just
something's gelled here and I remember
thinking I had my poker face. I please
God, please God sing. Please God sing."
>> And then and they were great. So, in
your new show, um you're looking for a
new boy band to launch and in the midst
of filming, um you receive the news of
Liam's death in Argentina in 2024.
Can you tell me how you heard and and
then what you did to sort of process the
loss?
>> Um I uh one of my um
>> and I know this is painful, so thank
you.
>> I mean, but of course we're going to
talk about it. um somebody who works
with me very close um came into my uh
room. I was up in the north of England
and I could tell on the look of her face
that she was upset and you know she said
that you know sit down and she told me
and it was like wow it's a bit like I
felt when I heard the news about when my
dad passed away you know that you can't
really it's very difficult to put into
words how you feel other than it's just
a shock total shock and a surprise even
though my dad was in his 80s I was still
really surprised
And obviously with Liam even more
surprised cuz he was so young. And um at
that point you're kind of you're not
really thinking clearly other than I
just remember saying I really need to
speak to his mom and dad. Can you get
them on the phone as soon as possible
please? Um because I know
God I mean you know
as a parent you know what that must have
you know felt like. And I was I knew his
mom and dad and I wanted to reach out in
that moment, you know, just to say, you
know, how I felt and it was just awful,
awful. And, you know, I'd seen him like
a year before in this room, you know,
and I remember seeing him walk into this
room and I looked at him and God, you
look amazing, Liam. You know, you look
great. Monson, what have you done? Well,
I'm going to the gym and blah blah blah.
We talked about his son and you know how
much it means to be a dad and I was
talking to him about you know there's
more to life than just music you know
you've got to a point in your life where
you've got choice now you you know etc
and I think we were just hung out as
friends that that's why I was so shocked
and surprised when I heard the news you
know
>> you know
since that happened there's been a lot
of reporting on One Direction, what
happened while they were a band, the
sort of drugs, the alcohol. He, you
know, talked about sort of struggling.
>> When we were in the band, the best way
to secure us because of how big it got
was just lock us in our rooms. And of
course, what's in the room? Mini bar.
>> Did you know about that at the time?
>> A little bit. Uh and we you know there
was stuff you I I never would have
spoken about you know then you know
which was private conversations I had
and advice I tried to give him um which
is what comes with fame you know etc etc
um but you know like we mean you're
signing a lot of artists and when you
sign an artist you know my role is
essentially get them with the right
production team get the managers and try
and make them successful, but at the
same time, I probably had about 20
artists on my books at the time. And it
is a little bit like they leave the
nest.
>> You know, you always say you're
available as and when you need to be,
but you can't follow them everywhere.
And um if I could go back in time to
that one day when he was in my house
here,
then obviously, you know, you always
think about things like that. What if
I'd said this? What if I'd said that?
But you know, there's only so much you
can do with any artist. If you just have
one artist in your life, maybe you can,
you know, but I'm not a manager, which
means my job is to run the label. And
you just hope that they are, first of
all, successful and happy. But when you
sign them, they were kids.
And so
it it must be that there is a different
type of relationship that they have with
someone like you who was also a judge
and you know kind of brought them
together.
Is it a complicated role that that kind
of relationship that you have with
someone who is so young?
>> It's always complicated to be honest
with you. I don't know whether it's more
complicated when they're young or
someone who's had success then hasn't
had success and comes back and wants a
second chance. I mean, every time it's
different, Lulu, you know, every artist
is different. There's not a pattern you
can say, you know, you have to work
differently with each artist. Everybody
has the same ambition, which is they
come on our shows or they want to work
with me because their dream is to be
successful.
We made these shows because I understood
and still do that there's always someone
out there waiting to be discovered if
you actually look. The chances of
getting well known are just minute.
>> And then like I'm doing now,
same thing. Young kids and you ask
yourself, is it a good thing or not?
without this show, what I'm doing, would
they be discovered? I don't think so. Is
it something they want to do? Yes. Um,
so at the end of the day,
you you want people to be successful and
happy,
but I
you know, that's kind of what I've you
you set out to do
>> to sort of um
look at what happened to Liam.
You know, for many people it was
a sign of [snorts] how toxic fame can
be.
>> Yeah.
>> And how hard it is to know at the
beginning
um of your career how it's going to
affect you?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> What is the lesson you take from it?
It's very difficult because I don't
honestly know what is harder which is
trying to be famous
or managing your fame.
>> Both are equally difficult
but there's obviously something you know
myself I can say this about myself. I
made my own choices. Um uh not every day
has been amazing but I would I I still
would I'm glad I did what I did. you
know, I just made a decision to do
something different in my life and it
was, you know, it comes obviously with
pressure, lot of pressure, a lot of
stress, but I signed up for it because
obviously there was something inside of
me saying I want to be well known, I
guess. Um,
and I would do it all over again.
So, your new show, as we mentioned, the
premise is that you're creating a new
boy band. I've seen you talk um about
how few new worldwide bands have been
launched lately um in the UK, in the
United States, and once I saw that, I
was like, it is actually true. Um what
do you think is going on?
>> I don't know. I genuinely don't know. I
I I knew that K-pop was going to be big.
I could sort of feel it and I mean
credit to them. I mean they've done an
amazing job. I mean they're like part of
South Korea's like economy. They're so
huge. So someone has gone there's a
market for bands and they have
absolutely nailed it.
>> However, from the UK and America there
hasn't been whether male or female a
breakout band. And in fact, one of my
obviously bond direction or fifth
harmony, you know, boys and girls were
probably the last two that really had a
big impact worldwide.
>> Something that also occurred to me um is
that we're now seeing the sort of
emergence of AI generated music and even
AI musicians. What do you think about
that? I mean, would you ever sign an AI
artist?
>> Well, I mean, I guess so. I mean I mean
if I thought uh it would be success they
him her I don't know what you would it
yes it would be successful. Yeah. Um
I'm not thrilled at the prospect if I'm
being honest with you. It's not really
my thing. I mean that's why I said to
the people we were making the
documentary with. I said I can't explain
to you how exciting it is when you got a
band. It's so compelling and so exciting
when you think it's starting to work and
importantly when they start to believe
it's going to work.
>> You know, we all know that it is uh
harder to have your finger on the pulse
as you get older.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh I say this myself. Um are you worried
about that? because you know you do note
in the show that you're in your 60s
trying to figure out what teenagers
today want and I have a teenager as as
do you a little younger than a teenager
and it seems like a different you know
generation completely in the way that
they consume things and discover things.
>> Well yes I guess let me work this out. I
was in my 50s when you know I had one
direction fifth harmony whatever little
mix I had a lot of bands who were
selling I don't know whether age uh was
a factor or not I think the biggest
thing really was the amount of time
since my last band to this time and in
between that time K-pop's arrived social
media like you said Tik Tok is
everywhere and we that wasn't really a
huge factor 10. So, so the the change in
10 years is ginormous
>> and you just have to there's there's
just no guarantee other than I think who
we've selected are really good. But I
never know until you put the group out
there whether they're going to be
successful or not. You just don't know.
And that's part of the buzz, I suppose,
not knowing cuz I don't.
>> All right. This is perhaps a strange
place to end. Um, but you recently had a
very big pop culture moment when you
were on the Jennifer Hudson show.
[laughter]
>> I heard about this.
>> You did the spirit tunnel where you walk
down the hall while her staff does a
little song and dance. Um,
>> and it was everywhere, Simon. Uh, and
the comment seemed one,
>> they were confused about the way you
were clapping.
>> Yeah. and too surprised that you
actually have legs because a lot of
people have only seen you behind a
judge's podium on television.
>> You're so right. [laughter]
>> But that is so funny you should ask that
question because it did occur to me.
Let's say I had got hit by a bus 6
months ago. What would people know me
for? Well, my job was sitting behind a
desk with three or four other people
pressing buttons. That's it. And I
thought, it's got to be more than that.
I mean, at least I can show that I still
have that kind of work ethic and I
really do love what I do and I'm not
afraid to show it and I walk.
>> Okay, but what were you doing with your
hands?
>> I don't know. I haven't seen it back.
>> Oh,
>> tell me.
>> There was some weird
>> Well, it was quite embarrassing. I
didn't know it was going to happen.
all.
>> I mean, I'm married to an Englishman, so
I I I understand sometimes um dancing is
is uh
>> yeah, is a challenge. You know, I could
never watch it. I'd be I'd be mortified,
but it made me laugh.
>> All right. Um we're going to end here
for now. We're going to talk again. Um
and
you know, we're going to talk a little
bit about your personal life and your
family. you do get a glimpse in this new
um documentary about you know your home
life and how much it's changed
>> and so we're going to talk a little bit
about that.
>> Thank you Lulu.
>> That was good.
>> That brought back a lot of memories
[music]
>> on the interview. We talked to our guest
twice. So I spoke with Simon Cow again
the next day when he was at his country
home.
>> Okay. Lovely. Are we good?
>> Cool.
>> Can you hear me?
>> I can hear you. Can you hear me?
>> Yeah. Where are you, Lulu?
>> Um, I'm in London and you are in the
Cotswwells at your house.
>> Yes. Yeah. I'm very happy here at Lulu.
>> Even though it's pissing with rain.
>> It's English weather. So, there's been a
lot of discussion in the music industry
about artists owning their work. You
know, the big one being, of course,
Taylor Swift. They say, you know, we're
the ones singing. We're the ones in
front of the the microphone. and
shouldn't it be ours?
>> And in other conversations, I've heard
you say that you regret not owning the
One Direction name. And so I'm just I'm
wondering how you just sort of square
that.
>> I think it depends on the circumstances
if I'm being honest with you. I think if
a band have formed themselves
uh and they come to me say and just say,
"Look, we want funding and you know you
to be the label like I used to do." I
get it. Uh it's it's they they did it.
if I was part of putting everything
together, it's almost like you're part
of the band.
>> You know, over the years there have been
complaints about contracts with artists
and yours, especially as pertains to X
Factor where some artists said they
actually didn't make any money when they
signed with your company because of low
low royalty rates. And I'm just
wondering if you think the contracts
were all fair. Is there a way that you
look at it in terms of being a business
person and in terms of being someone who
is creating and supporting artists?
>> Well, um I didn't really get involved in
those negotiations. If you ask me what
what anyone's royalty was, I actually
couldn't tell you. Lulu
>> genuinely.
>> Yeah. Um, I mean, look, I I I think
I I would have to look I from I
guess you'd have to talk to both sides.
I I suppose the people who are happy and
unhappy. I mean, some people were happy,
I guess, some people were unhappy. I
mean, that's life, I guess.
I don't think it was unfair, Lulu. No.
>> Okay. I want to talk about your personal
life. Um,
>> you know, one of the things that was for
me quite interesting about you was
reading your authorized biography which
came out in 2012 and it made it pretty
clear that you used to party pretty hard
when you were younger. You were famously
adverse to commitment. You know, you
were a man about town. There were a lot
of different partnerships. Do you think
that that was a fair characterization of
who you were back then?
Well, yeah. I mean, I had quite a lot of
long-term, you know, relationships. You
know, most of my relationships have been
pretty long. Um, I'm still friends with
a lot of my my ex-girlfriends.
I mean, genuinely,
>> the book The book makes the point that
surprisingly, yeah, that you don't
really
>> Can I be honest with you, Lulu? I
haven't read it.
>> Oh, wow. Well, um,
>> so you know more than I do.
>> Yeah. But it does make the point that
your exes are friends of yours, but it
does also make the point that back then
you were, you know, a man about town.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Probably.
>> So,
you're now part of this family unit. You
have a long-term partner, Lauren, and
your son now, Eric. How has that changed
you?
>> Well, uh, it saved me, if I'm being
honest with you, Lulu. I think I um when
my mom passed away in 2015, it was after
losing my dad and then losing my mom. Uh
it was like feeling like an orphan
genuinely. And thank God she my mom, you
know, even though she had, you know,
dementia, uh, and it was getting pretty
bad.
>> Um, she, you know, she met Eric, um, and
you know what is, uh, amazing. And he he
he remembers her vaguely because he was
really young. And my mom gave him this
um brown blanket
um you know just probably about three or
four feet long and to this day he will
not go anywhere without that brown
blanket.
>> Your your son Eric um
was a major turning point as you
mentioned and you've described it as
sort of pulling you out of this very
dark downward spiral that you were on
after your mother died. Yeah, I just I
don't know. I always had suffered from
depression. Um uh and I'd got to a point
where, you know, life my career was
going great, but for whatever reason, I
was just unhappy. Just really unhappy.
Um and um you know that expression, is
this as good as it gets? I was kind of
feeling a bit like that actually. Um it
was kind of like everything just felt
monotonous.
Um and that was sort of it. Um and then
you know he kind of like it was like my
life changed when it when you know he
was he was born everything started again
if that kind of makes sense.
>> Yeah. I mean what does it look like
exactly to sort of pull yourself out of
of that? I mean, what did you do
practically speaking to to get yourself
>> into a different place?
>> I used to work genuinely up until
sometimes 7:00 in the morning. Um, there
was always stuff to do and I found it
that time from like 1 to 7 in the
morning weirdly peaceful. Um
uh I I could really focus on the shows,
you know, whatever we were doing, if we
were, you know, listening to songs, what
there was always something, right? And
then um when Eric was about two, I he
must have been about that age because I
didn't get up until the afternoon. So I
never saw the morning. I hadn't seen the
morning for years. I actually used to
think, God, how could people work in the
morning? It just felt weird to me. And
um he came in one day and it was about
2:30 in the afternoon and he went, "Dad,
what are you what are you doing asleep?"
And I went, "God, he's right. What am I
doing asleep? I've got to readjust."
>> You know, Simon, in the in the two
conversations that we've spent with each
other, um
it does appear that you've sort of
softened. Would you say that that's an
accurate reflection of how you see
yourself at the moment?
>> Yeah, I would say that. Yeah, for sure.
Um, I'm I'm I'm more I think more
confident in myself. Um,
now um, you know, like we spoke about
yesterday, I'm not afraid to take on new
things. I like trying new things still.
Uh, I'm very curious. You know, when you
mentioned the AI, I was thinking about
this overnight, the AI thing. I was kind
of thinking, is this smart or is it
exploiting people what they've done? I
actually don't know the answer to that
question.
>> I really, really don't.
>> And the fact that it's happened is a
little bit scary. At the same time, I'm
sort of intrigued by it. I don't know
how you feel about it.
>> Well, I don't know either. I find AI
scary mostly and exploitative mostly.
Um, but
>> can I ask you a question? All right. The
question is, if you could have a button,
green or red, green being yes, red being
no, and you were able to stop the
internet, what would you have done?
>> Oh god. Oh, that's a good question. What
um stop the internet? I guess knowing
now what we know.
>> Yeah. You know, the internet has has
become an extraordinary tool for
advancement, but it we're sort of
petri dishes in a way. We're we're being
experimented on in ways that are
changing us fundamentally. And I don't
know the end of that story yet. So, I
don't know. What about you?
>> It would be stop. I pressed the red
button because I you know I just I was
thinking about this the other night.
Weirdly it was kind of like I like the
time when we didn't have so much choice.
So when something came out like I don't
know Jaws or Star Wars or whatever. It
was such a big deal and the fact that we
knew it was coming and we had to go
somewhere to watch it. It was such a fun
amazing time.
Uh, and I personally think that people
were happier then than now. I mean, a
lot of people would disagree with that,
but uh, that's how I feel.
>> I don't know. It's just a personal
thing. I was just curious what you what
you would say.
>> Your answer is more interesting for
sure.
Um
just in our in our last few minutes
as I was sort of mentioning
you you've sort of softened and
I wonder what you make of the fact that
the rest of the world has gotten sort of
more vicious
because we see it in our culture, we see
it in our politics. as someone who
understood the power of the bully, that
it can rally people, that you were the
most popular member
of the panel um in all these shows
because you told it like it was.
Does any of your experience with that
give you insight on this moment?
Well, I think um if we're talking about,
you know, um what I wish then I wish
I guess, you know, when we make Got
Talent, we all say the same thing to
each other, which is this is just how
everything should be. We all get on well
with each other, you know, genuinely.
Everyone's welcome. Everyone has a great
time, a great experience. I mean, you
sat there and you experienced it. You
know, it's very in I was thinking about
that, the fact that you saw it and then
you kind of go, that's a great bubble to
live in. So, I sort of live in a slight
bubble if I'm being honest with you. Uh,
in so much as I don't have a phone and I
don't read anything online or I don't
read newspapers.
>> You don't watch Tik Tok, Instagram,
nothing.
>> No, I don't. Nothing. I have no idea
even what social media things I have.
Uh, I I'm really genuinely oblivious and
I do it for a reason because
I'm happier that way. Um, you know, it's
my choice and it's just I decided that's
how I wanted to live. And when you asked
me about, you know, being softer now, I
think part maybe that's part of the
reason is that I just don't get caught
up in anything, you know, so, you know,
I don't want to change that. All right.
Before we go, I want to get your take on
a few things.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, who is your favorite current artist
who has nothing to do with you
>> Chapel?
>> Ran.
>> Ran. Yeah,
>> she's great.
>> Yeah. I I heard her first song. Eric
played it to me and I went, that is one
of the best best songs I've heard in
years. Do you watch reality TV?
>> Are you a housewives guy?
>> No.
>> Would you go on traders, celebrity
traders?
>> Never.
[laughter]
>> No.
>> All right. You've said before that you
uh wanted to be cryogenically frozen. Is
that still true? [laughter]
Because the technology has gotten a lot
better.
>> Okay. I'll tell you a funny story. So,
yes, I did think for a while. Okay.
Well, we're all going to eventually
unfortunately die. That's that's life.
What if then I I'll just freeze myself.
That was before, by the way, I was, you
know, a a dad.
>> Then someone told me they chop your head
off
and then basically I think your brain's
frozen. So then the idea of coming back
some kind of robot in 3,000 years time,
it's like, forget it. No, I'm not
interested.
>> [laughter]
>> Even if it's your full body now, not
just the head.
>> No, no, I don't want to. No. Uh maybe uh
I actually do believe I think now I'm
I'm I do believe in God and I do believe
there's something I really do hope and
believe that there's something h good
that happens afterwards. I don't know
what it is. I always think about the
power of the universe and how little we
know about that. And it's kind of that
that unknown. And my mom had a lot of
faith which you know was really
genuinely made her happy. And I'm
starting to think a lot about that. Not
because I'm getting older or I'm going
to die tomorrow. It's just does it make
me happy. Actually, yes, it does.
>> I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro.
>> And I'm David Marches
>> and we're the hosts of the interview, an
audio and video [music] podcast from the
New York Times. Every week we interview
fascinating and influential people from
all walks of life.
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you'll never [music] miss an episode.
>> So this is actually a pajama top. I
ordered [music] in total
150. Sounds excessive but I'm very
sensitive to fabrics. [music]